Chloe Lannert: Before.
Chloe Lannert: Alright we. We did add this session like a little bit later notice. So I we may be missing some people. Some people might may filter in. But we asked about a week ago what people were missing in the curriculum, and the biggest thing was SEO pr. How do I
Chloe Lannert: be public about what I'm doing? So thank you so much for for being willing to jump in at such late notice to to help our folks out.
Chloe Lannert: A lot of the companies are in health tech and just industries where legitimacy is super important to them. So we're we're trying to to help them out here.
Amalia Lytle: Cool. Did we want to do this ama style? Did you wanna ask the the questions, or should I like, ask myself questions, or let people ask me questions.
Chloe Lannert: I'll take you through some some intro questions, and then from there. From there we can open it up to more individual situations. If that works for you.
Amalia Lytle: Yeah. Sounds good in a hot seat.
Chloe Lannert: All right. So, starting with 101 style, questions, what? What encompasses Pr.
Amalia Lytle: Yeah, actually, I want to start by asking this group or brave volunteer to tell me what you think. Pr, is
Amalia Lytle: anyone.
Talitha & Flo: It's like how you represent your brand and to the form of brand partnerships. Event. Like events. It can be all multimedia. So it could be like a television to like you know,
Talitha & Flo: print media. So all the different ones.
Talitha & Flo: Yeah.
Amalia Lytle: Yeah, that's that's absolutely correct. I like to think of Pr more. Those are more like the mediums that you use. Pr, for I think of Pr more as like a growth channel that helps you accomplish your accomplish your business goals so it can help you build trust with certain audiences. It can help you raise capital, it can help you expand into new markets.
Amalia Lytle: It can help you differentiate yourself against a competitor. So any business lever that you need to pull. You can use Pr for.
Chloe Lannert: Amazing, so.
Dave Scott: The difference is earned versus paid.
Amalia Lytle: Yeah. So I mean, you can pay for paid media opportunities a lot of where I operate, a hundred percent of where I operate is in owned, and that's usually in like media relations specifically. But some people do use more paid strategies as a marketing tactic.
Chloe Lannert: I'm I'm interested to to dive into that a little bit further. So
Chloe Lannert: what what are the differences, when, when does paid make sense? Does paid ever make sense.
Amalia Lytle: Yeah. I mean, so, Andrea, our digital marketing person uses paid for digital ads when they want to promote something on Linkedin that you know, they want to get certain eyeballs on. They'll do like Linkedin ads, and that could be considered a form of paid media. You can do.
Amalia Lytle: You can pay to be in like inc inc female founders to get on that list of of female founders.
Amalia Lytle: and then this is again, not really where I operate earned is really just like doing Pr without any money behind it. So my budget is 3 items long, which is for a muck rack and some business wire things.
Chloe Lannert: That's awesome. So what what should people be using? Pr for?
Amalia Lytle: Yes, so Pr. Should
Amalia Lytle: 100. This is like my main philosophy. Pr should have a purpose. So just like you're not going to Vcs to raise money because you just want more money in the bank. You are not going to do Pr, just because you want to have some press coverage. So all those reasons that I gave you before your business goals
Amalia Lytle: are going to be the purpose for doing Pr.
Chloe Lannert: What sorts of milestones make sense in terms of, when to reach out to journalists or think about Pr.
Amalia Lytle: Yeah. So you should have.
Amalia Lytle: You know, you should have news to share, usually for startups. That's pending news. You should have
Amalia Lytle: a story, a point of view. But really like as a young startup, your best opportunity for Pr is when you have a real hard piece of news to share.
Chloe Lannert: Absolutely in terms of
Chloe Lannert: like before we even get to those milestones? When should companies start thinking about Pr, are there any certain metrics that make sense or certain industries that should start thinking about it earlier than others. When should Pr really come on the radar for for early stage folks.
Amalia Lytle: Yeah, that's a good question.
Amalia Lytle: I don't know if you need to like, wait for a certain moment to do. Pr, it's going to be easier when you have some traction behind you. When you have, you know, a a seed round that you can point back to but there's no like hard metric in terms of like. Oh, I have this revenue. So now I can go out and do. Pr. I think what you should consider
Amalia Lytle: most is, why are you doing? Pr again? What is your purpose for it? What's your tactical reason for it? And like, do you have something that you can give to a journalist, so you can get your story out there.
Chloe Lannert: Absolutely
Chloe Lannert: how how should folks go about getting media coverage if they're not ready to to really invest in Pr or do anything paid.
Amalia Lytle: Yeah, so I'm a firm believer that
Amalia Lytle: anyone can do pr you don't need to have like a dedicated pr person or a pr agency. Those people are there to support you, because, as founders, you guys are very busy people and have a lot of other priorities. But if you have a news moment you can be the one to reach out to a reporter.
Amalia Lytle: remind me. What was the question again, how do you find those reporters.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, how do you? How do you get media coverage? Is it reaching out directly to journalists? Is it like, are there websites? You should be paying attention to like. If I mean, this is a total black box to me. If I wanted to get media coverage, what do I do.
Amalia Lytle: Yeah, well, you're going to pitch directly to journalists. I think you need to think about like what reporters want. So they are telling stories to their audience about some sort of trend. They want to tell stories that resonate with their audiences. They want data to back it up. They want exclusive or 1st rights to a story.
Amalia Lytle: And so with that in mind, you can go find the relevant reporters within your your universe, or that will be interested in the story that you're trying to tell. You guys should be reading the news especially if you're in an industry like health tech where, you know, there's a lot of things going on, and you need to have a pulse on the industry. So just by like consuming news, I I think it's pretty obvious about where where to go.
Amalia Lytle: There are some other tactics to find journalists, though I like to look at competitors and figure out like where they've been recently covered. So I will. Google, Yc, see? Oh, they were just in fast company. I should be talking to this reporter who I haven't ever spoken to before and start developing relationships that way.
Chloe Lannert: Absolutely. So is this like you just cold email
Chloe Lannert: in terms of like developing relationships with journalists.
Amalia Lytle: You just cold email.
Chloe Lannert: Awesome.
Amalia Lytle: There, there are tactics about how to email journalists. You don't want to write an essay to a journalist. You want to keep it pretty brief. But you can email a a journalist and say, like, Hey, I'm the founder of this company. We do this. I thought you would be interested in my perspective on this, because it's relevant to your audience. Because why?
Amalia Lytle: And just like quick bullets about that. Why? And sign off and cross your fingers, that they respond.
Chloe Lannert: That's awesome.
Chloe Lannert: So, backing up to agencies a little bit, you mentioned that they're there to support you? When should founders be thinking about agencies. Does it make sense at this early stage? What are your thoughts? There.
Amalia Lytle: Yeah, I think if you have the money and to to work with a pr agency and
Amalia Lytle: the knowledge that this is a long term strategy. It's not like you pay an agency for 6 months and expect to have a ton of Pr hits. This is a relationship that needs to develop as they get to know you, as they test out different pitching strategies as they help you with your messaging. It's great to work with an agency. And I can certainly refer some agencies to you guys. So that's number one. I think the other thing just like
Amalia Lytle: in terms of things that I
Amalia Lytle: see as red flags with agencies are anyone that's promising you coverage? I think that's like a big
Amalia Lytle: a big no, no, because no one can guarantee you're gonna get coverage. That's 1 thing that's out of your control. You can't like pay a reporter to cover you
Amalia Lytle: if they recommend a lot of pay for play opportunities like
Amalia Lytle: CEO magazine is something that, like you guys might have might have gotten an inbound from that like you pay $3,000 to be featured in CEO Magazine? And then anyone who recommends press releases as pr strategy.
Chloe Lannert: Right, Fabio, you wanna jump in.
Fabio Caironi: Yeah. Sorry. I don't know if this is like following the topic you're discussing. But I just had a random question, What what are the ways to measure the effectiveness of a Pr strategy
Fabio Caironi: like with, you know, email marketing, you can look at the open rate, get the conversion rate. How do you conversion with Pr.
Amalia Lytle: This is a problem that I'm waiting for an entrepreneur to solve. So there isn't really a way to measure where or how many eyeballs read a story. There are different tactics that you can use. Some people will look at. Oh, this publication has this many readers per month. So that's how I'm going to measure it. I don't measure it that way, because that doesn't tell me how many readers read an actual story
Amalia Lytle: actually measure by
Amalia Lytle: how many media interviews I've secured. How much coverage I've gotten. Which of those are in priority or top tier publications. So top tier being like the Wall Street Journal. Financial Times, Fortune, Forbes.
Amalia Lytle: or trade publications that are really important to techstars which are like newcomer, which is a substack newsletter trade publications like modern healthcare
Amalia Lytle: stuff like that. And so I'll measure how much of my coverage, what percentage of that coverage that I've gotten
Amalia Lytle: it, you know, is in a publication that we like. If I was quoted, or if David Cohen, our our CEO, was quoted, then what's the other one?
Amalia Lytle: Oh, if a key message has come through. So we have a bunch of messages that we hope to have covered in the media. So if the media says we're a pre seat investor, or we work with or we help founders succeed. Then that's a check mark for how we measure.
Chloe Lannert: Interesting, Morgan, do you wanna jump in.
Morgan Stanton: Yeah, I have a question. About your spot like paid things like Matt. If you show up in these magazines, I guess, like 30 under 30 or something. I I felt so naive, thinking that they were just like, Oh, they were really great and got put there. But even things like, I feel like business wire right? Like charges you to do post. So
Morgan Stanton: I like an early stage like, Yeah, I guess you said like there should be a purpose. But are there like better avenues than others like you're talking about like, I don't know who gets more eyeballs on on what. But like.
Morgan Stanton: yeah, showcase yourself. But yeah, I don't. I don't want to spend this kind of money.
Amalia Lytle: Yeah, so there's a couple. There's 2 different questions in here. I'll start with like the paid things like
Amalia Lytle: a list on Inc. For example, there they were recently sourcing Inc. The like top female founders that cost $395 to participate in. But I would recommend that because you can find yourself on a list with the likes of like Sally Crawcek or I forget who else was on the list last year, but like these notable women.
Amalia Lytle: they also do Inc. Founder. Friendly firms which is paid.
Amalia Lytle: Techstars will participate in that, because every other Vc firm participates in that, and we don't want to be the one that is left off of that list.
Amalia Lytle: But then there's things like
Amalia Lytle: Oh, I'm trying to think of. Well, the CEO one, and then there's another with like Dennis quaid that you guys at some point in your life will get an email about where it's like $5,000, and they say they'll get you on Pbs or Bloomberg, but it's like Pbs at 4 am. In the morning like that is a ridiculous amount of money to spend for no one to ever see
Amalia Lytle: that that piece of coverage, right?
Amalia Lytle: Business wire is a whole different story. Business wire, the or pr newswire the other one. The wire services that you put over a put a press release over the wire, for like $1,000
Amalia Lytle: is an expensive lift, but there are some times that you can and should use it.
Amalia Lytle: When you're a young startup, it will help boost your SEO. So if you want people to Google, you and see you just like released a new product. You will show up on the Google newsfeed if you've had negative coverage.
Amalia Lytle: That's a good way to push some of that down. That's a tactic that techstars used this year with when we had a lot of negative coverage. We started putting things out on business wire to try to push some of that negative coverage down. And then also, if you have a
Amalia Lytle: company name that's really similar to another company, and you want to make sure that people know what what your company is and what your company does. That's another reason to do it.
Amalia Lytle: But any other time it's not really that important to put your press release over Pr. Newswire. If you're promoting it on social your blog, sending it out to your stakeholders all that jazz.
Chloe Lannert: That's awesome. So just diving in, how would you go about doing that?
Amalia Lytle: On business wire.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, just like super super one on one.
Amalia Lytle: You sign up for account with business wire.
Amalia Lytle: You have a press release. When it's ready to go, you upload it. You choose the date and time you pay the money, and it gets sent out over the wire. I don't over the wire means like to. They blast it to a ton of newsrooms. That doesn't mean anyone is ever going to see it in the newsroom, and they're certainly like in the olden days
Amalia Lytle: the olden days publications would like, see a press release come through and be like, oh, we'll cover it via the press, like via
Amalia Lytle: picking it up on the wire. I actually have no idea how it worked in the olden days, but they would see it and now you know, it just goes into the ether for no one to see except it'll get syndicated to like Yahoo finance, where a thousands of other press releases are being syndicated to. But you can say like, oh, hey! It was on Yahoo finance. You weren't, really. But you know, yeah.
Chloe Lannert: For sure. What publications and reporters should people pitch? And how do they research them? How do you decide.
Amalia Lytle: Yeah. So I like to use this analogy of you wouldn't go to a well, 1st of all.
Amalia Lytle: let's start with publications.
Amalia Lytle: publications. You should determine, you know, if you want to be in top tier, if you want to be in trade, or if you want to be in local. All those different types of publications will target a different sort of audience. So top tier, I would think, generally like business and investors. Trade is more like your customer niche, and then, local is, you know, anyone in a local region that you want to be in front of?
Amalia Lytle: so determine what those publications are for you. If you're I know there's a lot of health tech founders here. So if you're a health tech founder, you can think about axios pro health tech, modern healthcare. Stat news. I'm sure I'm missing a ton but those are some like trade publications.
Amalia Lytle: and then, yeah, local you can think about wherever you're based. The like business journal is there?
Amalia Lytle: Then, finding a journalist so usually reporters at a specific publication will cover a beat like they will cover a specific industry vertical. So you can go to any publication and look up the healthcare reporter or the AI reporter or the Fintech reporter. Whatever it is.
Amalia Lytle: it's the same as this is the analogy I was going to use. If you're going to a Vc. You're trying to raise money, and you're a pre seed company. You're not going to go to a growth investor. Same with if you're a healthcare company you're not going to go to a Fintech investor or Fintech writer. So it's just finding who covers. You know your industry
Amalia Lytle: and makes the most sense for you to reach out to.
Amalia Lytle: And again, we like to look at my competitors and see where they're being talked about, and and that helps me evaluate who might be relevant for me.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, narap.
Nirat Attri: I guess a question there like, because it's it's it's more of loop the way I'm looking at it because you want to use the Pr companies like these these coverages to
Nirat Attri: get yourself more visibility
Nirat Attri: and more credibility. But at the same time the Pr firm is also taking a risk by
Nirat Attri: covering you in that manner, so like what would be the stage where you would say that they would be comfortable covering us in this capacity?
Nirat Attri: Or should we be looking to check some things off first, st before we ask for that kind of release?
Amalia Lytle: Yeah. When you're saying the Pr firm are you're saying.
Nirat Attri: I mean. Sorry I'm talking about the publication. Sorry.
Amalia Lytle: Yeah. So I don't know if they really would. A publication would evaluate if you were too risky or not to cover what they care about is writing interesting stories for their audiences. So when you pitch them, when you share news with them, what they're thinking is like, oh, are the people who read my stories going to be interested in this story is this like interesting.
Amalia Lytle: interesting for them? And that's really more what they care about than like is this risky or not? Because they they don't have a crystal ball. They can't tell the future. They don't know if something bad is gonna happen. They don't know if you know, like
Amalia Lytle: your company is gonna blow up hopefully. Not like. But you know. So in terms of risk, that's not really something that they think about as much as like. Is this an interesting story to tell.
Chloe Lannert: And.
Nirat Attri: Thanks.
Chloe Lannert: So super interesting.
Chloe Lannert: okay, sorry. I will have a follow up for that in in just a second. Can you talk us through on the record off the record. And oh, wait, Nara, do you have a follow up.
Amalia Lytle: Hmm.
Nirat Attri: Yeah, I think it was of the same in the same way. So should we like already pitch what that story might look like when we reach out to them like, come up with an interesting narrative preemptively, and then go out to them rather than giving them a concept and letting them work with it like what would be the right way to approach that 1st connect them.
Amalia Lytle: Yeah, you can approach it a couple different ways. I and I will do it in both formats where I propose a story, or where I just like, generally ask what they're working on, and how I can be a resource for them. So in the first, st in the 1st one, the resource piece. If you see a reporter that is super relevant to the type of company, tell me about your company. What kind of company are you.
Nirat Attri: So we're a healthcare company. We work with other healthcare companies to make them easier, to build their products like
Nirat Attri: make sure.
Amalia Lytle: Okay.
Amalia Lytle: So you see a healthcare company, you see, a healthcare reporter covering an industry trend that's relevant to building a healthcare company. And you're like, Oh, I have a perspective on that. Like I have my own point of view, based on the work that I do. You can reach out to that reporter and say, Hey, I saw this story. I thought it was really interesting. One thing you didn't say in your story that I think you should look into is Xyz.
Amalia Lytle: You know your point of view, and say, if you ever want to talk more about it, I'm here as a resource for you start to build that relationship with them without expecting anything in return.
Amalia Lytle: the give 1st mentality applies to pr, and then the second piece. If you have a story that you really want told. This is probably going to need to be more hard news, or you're sharing some some sort of growth metric about yourself, then you will, you know, craft essentially an abstract for the reporter, and say.
Amalia Lytle: I think this might be interesting to your audience because of this reason. If you want to go to like Staff, for example, who has.
Amalia Lytle: you know, healthcare executives reading it? And you know you have some news from your your business. That's applicable to that audience. You can explain why and craft that, and ask them if they'd like to talk to you more and cover that story.
Chloe Lannert: So. Thanks.
Chloe Lannert: So I remembered my follow up. You
Chloe Lannert: said that, like the publications themselves, aren't necessarily taking a risk by covering you. It's all about interest.
Chloe Lannert: When does that interest no longer work in terms of the company? How do you navigate that? If there's a spin that isn't attractive to your company as a founder, but is attractive.
Chloe Lannert: for, like the viewers, how do you? How do you keep control of the narrative?
Amalia Lytle: Are you asking like if they publish something? And it's negative, and you don't agree with it.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, that. And also like, if you're bringing something up and they take a spin on it. That isn't
Chloe Lannert: sort of what you wanted. How? How do you like keep control of like the final product.
Amalia Lytle: Yeah. So I mean, if you're talking to
Amalia Lytle: a reporter, if you're interviewing with a reporter for a story, and they say something, you don't agree with. This is a whole like separate media training thing, but you can take a step back, and you don't have to answer every question that a reporter asks you. You know you can pivot away to whatever you want to talk about at the end of the day, if something's published, and you don't agree with it.
Amalia Lytle: you don't really have control of the story, but you can respond. You know, if they misquoted you, that's you need to reach out to their editor and say, that's not actually what I said, or you're missing contacts. You can publish that on your social media and say they took this out of context. This rarely happens. I think most reporters are really good at their jobs. They don't want to burn bridges, and they also like go through a ton of checks where they're not publishing anything like
Amalia Lytle: crazy, false.
Chloe Lannert: Cool. Okay.
Amalia Lytle: Did that answer the question? I'm not entirely sure I understood the question.
Chloe Lannert: No, that that's super super helpful. Sorry. I asked it poorly. That's super helpful to understand more about the relationship between, say, a founder and the journalist. But have you ever run into any situations where a founder brings something to a journalist, and the journalist takes it, but with a different or negative angle compared to what the founder was, was looking for.
Amalia Lytle: I haven't, but like I don't know if that's risky to
Amalia Lytle: a founder, I mean, they're just proposing an idea.
Amalia Lytle: and you know the reporter will need to go to different sources to create a whole different narrative of the story. So when when you see a news article, you'll see that there are several sources
Amalia Lytle: being quoted. That's because reporters aren't writing opinion pieces. They're writing. They're supposed to be writing neutral things that need to have sources backing it up. So if you propose something to a reporter that they have heard the opposite from other sources, they might write about that. But that's not necessarily a risk to you to propose something that a reporter takes and reports in a different way.
Chloe Lannert: Cool, super helpful. Getting a little bit more tactical.
Chloe Lannert: Can you talk us through on the record off the record and on background.
Amalia Lytle: Yep on the record, when you're speaking to a journalist means the reporter can
Amalia Lytle: quote you and everything you say. So obviously, when you're talking to reporter, you want to make sure you establish ground rules, even in the like very beginning of the conversation, where you're just chit chatting, you are on the record unless you say this is off the record, so don't say anything like in like small talk that you wouldn't want to see published in a news story.
Amalia Lytle: Off. The record means reporters can't publish anything that you say to them. They can't do anything with that information. They could, you know, go to another source and say, like, Hey, I heard this rumor, can you confirm it? And they would publish it that way, but they would need someone else speaking to them on background or on the record to be able to write something on the off the record information you gave them. And then I just brought up on background
Amalia Lytle: on background, is a great way to talk to reporters as you're getting to know them, because they can use what you tell them to write a story, but they can't attribute it to you. So it'll be like when you see a source familiar with the situation said this. That was a quote given on background.
Chloe Lannert: Absolutely. Okay. Cool.
Chloe Lannert: Amazing. How much time should people spend
Chloe Lannert: on Pr at this super early stage?
Amalia Lytle: That's a great question. I that I don't know that I can answer. I think it depends on
Amalia Lytle: you, your company, what your tactical goals are what your purpose for Pr is. I certainly think you should spend some time developing relationships with reporters in the early stages and giving them. You know your perspective and thoughts about what's going on in your industry if you have that
Amalia Lytle: But at these super early stages, honestly, you guys are not gonna get a ton of Pr, it's so so hard to do Pr for early stage startups until they get to the like series. A level ish just because reporters want to report on things that have traction or have, like some validation behind them. So I wouldn't like spin your wheels
Amalia Lytle: doing it on your own, for you know, hours every week.
Chloe Lannert: Solid backing up a little bit to off the record, is just saying off the record enough like, How do you maintain that you're off the record.
Amalia Lytle: You have to ask. So both parties have to agree that this is off the record. So definitely. Yeah, make sure that the reporter clarifies that. Do you guys remember
Amalia Lytle: the Ftx guy when he was like talking to a wired reporter and he didn't clarify, was off the record. And they were just texting. He was like, Oh, we're texting. It's off the record. And then she reported everything because they didn't clarify so yeah, just ask like if I need to, if I need to be off the record, you know. Hey? Can we go off the record for this and wait for them to say yes, and then say whatever you wanted to say.
Chloe Lannert: Right? Okay? So you super have to.
Chloe Lannert: And they're not saying in the chat, it seems like a movie that it it sounds almost fake. But that's
Chloe Lannert: awesome that it works like that.
Chloe Lannert: cool, so will will most of these interactions be interviews with journalists, or how do you approach in person or phone interviews versus written correspondence.
Amalia Lytle: Yeah, a lot of interviews do take place via a phone call or zoom
Amalia Lytle: it can be in person, especially if you're an Sf, and there's so many Vc reporters and Sf, it's really easy to meet someone and just talk that way.
Amalia Lytle: yeah, I don't.
Amalia Lytle: What was the other part of the question?
Chloe Lannert: So the majority happens by phone or zoom but is there any sort of like publication? Will will you ever get quoted based off written correspondence, I mean, I I think the Ftx example was an example in favor of that. But how common is that compared to sitting down for for a live interview.
Amalia Lytle: Yeah, you can provide, you know, quotes or feedback via email. It probably won't be from like your initial outreach. But it could be. I mean, when you do email a reporter that's
Amalia Lytle: on the record and they might take something. It's I think, that's like very rare that they would. Or you'll agree that you're sharing thoughts in writing via email. That will be published.
Chloe Lannert: Awesome. Dave!
Amalia Lytle: Dave, you're on mute.
Dave Scott: Yeah, I got a question about I've got a weird situation in my industry. There's a lot of sort of like citizen journalists.
Dave Scott: So there's not a lot of legitimate journalists, but a lot of blogs
Dave Scott: and everyone's everyone's a journalist from the blog perspective. Does your approach differ when you have a situation like that, where you've got a thousand blogs that have a hundred
Dave Scott: viewers each, and they're and they're all doing it part time.
Amalia Lytle: Yeah, we're definitely leaning more into those like smaller bloggers recently. Because they
Amalia Lytle: very niche specific crowd who have opted in to read that blog. So like while the audience is small, it's mighty because these are people who are engaged with the blog, and like you might see more success more value from that interaction than like
Amalia Lytle: a larger publication that reaches thousands of people. But no one is like really engaged with that reading. So yeah, that's definitely
Amalia Lytle: a strategy that we're leaning more into.
Dave Scott: Any strategies on working with them like any advice.
Amalia Lytle: It's really the same
Amalia Lytle: as like working with journalists in terms of like developing the relationships, understanding what they're writing about and what their audience is, and engaging them to build that relationship so that you know they might cover you someday.
Chloe Lannert: So that is
Chloe Lannert: for for now that's all the questions from me. If we want to open it up a bit more to everyone else.
Chloe Lannert: starting with any challenges you're experiencing in Pr, this is a great time to to dive in.
Amalia Lytle: No, hit me with your best challenges.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah. George.
George Reed - Noetic: Thanks, Amelia. So just a really simple one like, for example, if you've done one of these interviews with
George Reed - Noetic: a sort of reporter.
George Reed - Noetic: But then you kind of weren't kind of weren't happy with the output, or rather, if you
George Reed - Noetic: confirmed with them, and it was published. But then something's come up. And now you're kind of like, not happy with the consequences.
George Reed - Noetic: Would you have any tips like on reaching out to them, and sort of politely requesting an amendment or something
George Reed - Noetic: kind of have that situation. So I know, yeah, have to.
George Reed - Noetic: So unfortunately, you can't correct anything they've written unless it's factually incorrect.
Amalia Lytle: You can ask. You might piss off the reporter by even asking, but unless it's factually incorrect, you kind of just have to accept. This is what happens, I think, on the other side of it you should look at. Why were my words misconstrued, or why did this part not come across and figure out like what was the messaging that I needed to relay, that I didn't
Amalia Lytle: share? Or what did I say that? You know, once it's published. I'm realizing well, I don't actually like how that sounds to my audience.
George Reed - Noetic: Okay, thanks. Yeah. This is kind of like, naivete of
George Reed - Noetic: sort of having a conversation and being. And then not realizing, oh, okay, the the dumb
George Reed - Noetic: sort of in between points will also be written in. So it sounds a bit ridiculous. But okay, Gotcha.
Amalia Lytle: Yeah, no. I've seen so many of those like even, you know, in my work where we're like, oh, my God! I can't believe they published this like one side note, where we said, Oh, yeah.
Amalia Lytle: stoked about this. And then they literally said word for word. I'm stoked about this set our.
George Reed - Noetic: Exactly. That's exactly it. Yeah.
Amalia Lytle: We're not that dumb. It was just, you know, a filler.
George Reed - Noetic: Hmm, yeah 100%. That's what I mean. Okay.
Amalia Lytle: Yeah.
Chloe Lannert: Right on that point. Do you know of any good free resources for sort of media training, or for founders to dive into before they they go on record with anyone.
Amalia Lytle: Yeah, I don't know any resources just off the top of my head. But let me do some digging to see if I have any. I can also send you my deck that I use to train media. Train our Mds. That you can take a spin through
Chloe Lannert: That'd be awesome.
Amalia Lytle: Helpful. Yeah.
Amalia Lytle: cool.
Amalia Lytle: I'm just actually going through my Pr deck. That I have, and I'll I'll leave you with some things to avoid while pitching. Don't call reporters A lot of reporters are millennials right now, we hate
Amalia Lytle: getting phone calls. So just don't do that. If even if you could find their phone number, don't call them. Don't. DM, DM, them on social I think a lot of reporters in this industry are inundated with Dms and emails. So unless they're saying on their social handle, like, Hey, it's okay for you to. DM, me, I would just avoid that. Just email them
Amalia Lytle: especially if their social is like their personal, social. They're not trying to work on their personal Instagram.
Amalia Lytle: Don't follow up more than once. So if you send an email to a reporter, and they don't respond, it's okay to follow up once. But I wouldn't do it more than that, because that's just annoying. And then, for obvious reasons, never lie to a reporter.
Amalia Lytle: Let's see what else any other questions.
Dave Scott: So I I've got a question. So you talked a little bit about like at our stage. We shouldn't spend a lot of energy on it. But like.
Dave Scott: could you recommend like 2 or like, I haven't done a lot of like
Dave Scott: venture capital media, right like I've done more in my industry. But can you talk about like, if we were to do venture capital specific media
Dave Scott: like, what would be the 1st 3 things you do, or the 1st couple of targets you target? Or
Dave Scott: how would you get started with that.
Amalia Lytle: Yeah, I think like for the Vc media, I would. That would be the time that I have a hard piece of news. So I have a funding round that I'm about to close. I'm gonna start working with a reporter at techcrunch at least 3 weeks before we wanna announce it.
Amalia Lytle: So finding the relevant reporter there are you? What industry is your company and game mean?
Amalia Lytle: Not sure if they have a gaming reporter? But I would find the most relevant reporter, whether it's gaming or some some like adjacent beat. To reach out to them.
Amalia Lytle: Yeah. So the the Vc things, techcrunch axios, fortune that's definitely like more of a hard news play.
Amalia Lytle: Then, like a point of view, thought leadership play for people.
Chloe Lannert: Awesome.
Chloe Lannert: Alright. Is everyone set feeling good.
Chloe Lannert: cool? Amalia, thank you so much for your time. Really, really appreciate it. If you could pass me that Md. Media training deck. I will definitely
Chloe Lannert: distributed out. Gotta get these people in check.
Amalia Lytle: Of course, I'll send the media training deck. You guys should take my email if you need Pr support, my door is always open. Feel free to reach out to me. I do have someone on my team that focuses specifically on helping our portfolio companies announce their funding round. So if you want support. With that we are here to help
Amalia Lytle: if you want to talk what journalists come like literally any question come to me right? You know. Email me, I'm here.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, wait. I'm so sorry. Double tapping on that, because that's huge. How does techstar support portfolio companies with Pr.
Amalia Lytle: Yeah.
Chloe Lannert: Like? What? What should they bring you to you? What! What does that look like?
Amalia Lytle: Yeah, it's really, historically been like in an ad hoc sort of way, we don't really have a formal process. Part of it is building relationships with you guys. So telling you just come to me. If you need Pr support, I will be honest if I have the capacity or not. If you're announcing a funding round, we're a little more specific about that. We like to do things
Amalia Lytle: in health tech, because me and my Pr manager have a lot of experience in health tech. And that's just where we have a lot of relationships. Climate tech. AI is really hard for us right now it's hard to break through. So we try to avoid that
Amalia Lytle: and if you're coming to us, we need like at least 3 weeks, preferably 4 to help you get to the point to announce it. So it's before you close your round. We're working together on the press. Release on pitching an exclusive so we need that kind of time in order to help you.
Chloe Lannert: Amazing.
Chloe Lannert: Thank you so much.
Amalia Lytle: Of course we've had.
Amalia Lytle: Bye, you guys.
Chloe Lannert: So everyone, bio Amalia's emails in the calendar invite. I'll send that deck over soon. Really appreciate it.
Amalia Lytle: Of course, bye.
George Reed - Noetic: Thanks, Amelia.